All right now let's try and see if we can get the face animations to work.
There are a couple of parts to this.
First we need to modify the script here to turn on and off the appropriate base object.
So when the idle animation is running we need to only have the face idle on here we need to have it
enabled here and win the jump is activated we need to activate the jump here et cetera.
So that's what we'll be doing in this script.
Just turning them on and off.
That's all to actually play the animations.
We're going to have to create yet another script.
And this one is going to be one that we can find out on the web.
So let's first go grab that if you go to wicked dot Unity 3D Dot Com and search for animating tile texture.
You'll find this page that has a few different scripts to run through a tiled texture a sprite sheet
and animated on an object as a texture.
So if we scroll down here there are a few that are fairly basic scripts but there's one down here right
here.
This animated tiled texture extended.
This is the one I want.
This is pretty detailed.
It's got a lot going on in it and it has quite a few settings that we can adjust.
Once we attach the script to our player object.
So what I'm to do is just go ahead and grab everything underneath this public class line here.
I'm just going to grab this curly bracket and I'm just going to click and drag all the way down to the
bottom of this script right down here.
I don't need this part down here or this one.
I'm just going to end right here and I'm gonna press control C to copy it to my clipboard.
Now back in unity I'm going to create a new script in my scripts folder a C sharp script and I'll call
this animate tiled texture and if I open this up we get the base default template here and I just want
to delete everything under that public class and press control the and there we go.
Now there are a couple of things that's going to happen here this is an older script.
So what happens is anytime we see this renderer here this is an older way of doing things.
You can see what we actually need is this Get component renderer parentheses.
So what let's do is let's just go ahead and type that in and then we'll copy and paste from that.
So get component renderer parentheses we go.
Let's just delete this type and get component and then we'll type in renderer and then open and close
parentheses and then we go so now let's just select this let's just highlight this control C to copy
and anywhere where we see renderer let's just paste this in here's one here here's one here
and all the way down here.
Looks like we have quite a few huh so this just happens as unity is updated scripts become out of date
and we sometimes have to update them in this way.
So let me grab this and paste that
looks like we've got one more here
control the paste.
OK so that's all we did is just replace the word renderer with get component renderer parentheses.
That's it.
So let's come up here now and let's save and we go and now let's go back to unity and I'll go ahead
and select one of these base objects I'll select the face Idol and I'll turn that on.
Let's go ahead and hit the X here to come out of that search mode.
So currently we have the face idle object enabled.
We've got our unlit transparent shader on it.
And now what I want to do is just take this script and just drag it and drop it right over here.
Now we have a lot of settings here that we can use.
We aren't going to use all of them but what I do want to do is make sure that our sprite sheet is in
here in the shader.
So let's come over to our textures and this idle sprite sheet.
We need to click and drag right into here and drop there and you can see then all the different images
in our animation here on the face.
So what it's going to do is that script is going to try and animate through this whole thing and project
that onto that base object.
So if we open this up again I'll just double click that we have two four six eight ten twelve fourteen
sixteen images across and three six nine images down.
So what let's do is go ahead and plug in 16 columns by nine rows right here and our frames per second
is 24.
And we want to play on enable.
So whenever this is enabled we want to play this animation.
So let's give it a try.
Let's see what happens.
I'll come over here and hit play
and there he is.
Look he's blinking.
He's idling and looking around all at the same time.
So what we're doing here is we're animating our 3D object.
And as you can see we're animating the 2D images all at the same time pretty cool.
All right so let's go ahead and hit the play and stop it now what let's do is select the face jump and
let's also add that animation as well.
So over here in the shader let's grab that jump sprite sheet and drag that into the texture here.
Now if we open this up we can see we've got two four six eight by four.
All right.
So let's plug that in.
We need to take that script here and our scripts folder and drag it over here.
There we go.
And so we said what eight by four or.
And we also want it to be 24 frames per second.
And in addition we want it to play on enable.
So when we hit the spacebar we will put into the script to disable the face object and enable the jump
object.
Now for the run object we don't need a whole lot here.
We just need that single image of the face in here.
I don't think I've brought that in yet.
So let's go over to our textures folder.
Let's right click.
Let's go to import new asset and that's probably going to be in our renders here.
Here's the run.
And there it is.
Let's click.
Import.
Here we go.
Now we need to tell it what type of image it is.
Let's go over here and let's call it a sprite.
It's a single image.
And the max size can be 256 and let's apply.
OK.
So there he is.
Let's now grab that face run object over here and let's click and drag and drag that run base image
right in there.
There we go OK.
So we're all set up with our textures and our animating script in the next video.
Let's work on modifying that player script so that when we hit the up arrow we kick off the face animation
for the run when it's at zero.
We play the face animation for the idol and when it's at 2:00 we play the face animation for the jump.